Previously on "the walking
dead: World beyond"...
Hope: The pregnant lady we saw
that night that mom died,
I scared her,
and she shot mom.
I knew there was something
you didn't tell me.
Silas:
I don't wanna be who everybody
thinks I am here.
In case
we have to kill any,
Do you think
you can do it?
♪♪
Hope:
I told him not to go.
I screamed at him
not to go.
If you want to keep your promise
to our dad,
Then you'll help us
find him.
Great.
Elton: So, we know based on the
code and map we were given that
The civic republic's
research facility
Is somewhere in new york state.
Iris: But we don't know
where exactly.
Not yet.
As is all the more reason
to turn around.
Just saying.
Nice try.
We might have taken a wrong
turn back there,
But this should still lead
to the interstate.
Yeah, well, bad news.
We're almost out of supplies,
And it looks like rain's
coming, so...
Huck: If the way station
will mentioned had panned out,
That'd be one
thing, but --
It's cool.
We'll figure it out.
How come he's smiling?
[chuckles]
Hey, how come
you're smiling?
Elton: Where do you think
the civic republic is?
It's called "the hidden city"
for a reason.
When people first
started talking about
An alliance with this
"hidden city,"
I pictured it
underground.
-Me too.
-Hmm.
I mean, but they refine
their own fuel.
They fly helicopters.
They grow their own crops.
-Hmm
-can't do that underground.
Well, their research place,
where our dad is,
That's not actually
where they are.
Maybe they do all that
other stuff somewhere else, too.
Regardless, their high resource
output would indicate
They have
a large population.
So if that were the case,
their security approach --
You know, not saying
where they are --
Would be understandable.
That sounds like
some shady shit to me.
Hmm.
It does.
And those messages
from your father
Are certainly cause
for concern,
But if they have
technology and agriculture
And sophisticated
governmental systems,
It'd be smart
to stay hidden,
Even if it makes
others question their motives.
I guess what I'm saying is
we should feel lucky
That they haven't taken over,
you know, taken things.
We don't know
they haven't.
Yeah, we know that because
we trade with them.
Portland does, too.
We have joint
protection agreements.
Well, they took
our dad, so...
Bottom line is we don't
know anything.
Ergo the long walk, champ.
Look, we got just
enough food
And water to get us
to omaha.
That's it.
Except omaha's north,
and they're headed east.
Yeah.
From the looks of it,
They're not changing
their minds.
At least not iris.
Yeah.
Silas, neither.
[sighs]
Any idea why corduroy decided
to play tag-along?
I didn't really think he knew
the girls that well.
The kid may be
the wedge.
Hey, why don't you
talk to him,
Convince him to
change his mind?
I'll handle hope.
Copy.
Iris: Hey!
Come look at this!
[thunder rumbles]
[clanging]
[grunts]
♪♪
It's worth
checking out, right?
It is.
Let's go.
Place like this,
hidden from the world,
Maybe we find
some supplies,
Something to eat
if we're lucky.
And ride out the rain.
♪♪
Iris: I've never been inside
a real high school before.
♪♪
[thunder rumbles]
♪ let's get out
of this country ♪
♪ I'll admit I'm bored
with me ♪
♪ when not in body,
at least in mind ♪
♪ we'll find a cathedral city ♪
♪ you can convince me
I am pretty ♪
[camera shutter clicks]
[clattering]
You okay?
Oh, shit.
Yeah, sorry.
I was trying to see
if there was anything useful
In there while we wait for
our baby sitters to get back.
Turns out not much.
Hey.
We can use these
to collect some rain.
[door closes]
felix: This place is huge.
No sign of empties,
but that does not mean
That they're not around.
Priorities are food,
clothes for hope,
And anything we can use
to collect water.
Might as well take advantage
of the downpour outside.
-Yeah.
Like that.
Good work.
We can cover more ground
if we split up.
We can handle ourselves.
Someone taught us,
[imitating felix] "in the end,
it's all about avoidance.
Keeping distance
is the difference
Between life and death."
That's good. That's --
that's what I sound like?
Okay.
Silas, you keep
your walkie on,
And, elton, you're with me
on water duty.
Let's go.
It would be my honor.
-Uh, hey, uh --
-so...
We haven't talked much
since, uh...
I was just hoping we could talk
or whatever, but it's cool.
We can talk later.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Totally.
Cool.
Uh, silas and I
will take the first floor.
Copy. Hey.
You keep your eyes open,
alright?
Weapons drawn.
And if you see one of them,
you run.
You understand?
We meet back here in one hour.
Be careful.
[imitating felix]
be careful.
I heard that.
Looks like it's me
and you, kid.
Yeah.
It's all about avoidance.
-Come on.
-Ha, ha!
Yes!
♪♪
Mm.
[chuckles] no way.
People actually wore these?
Like, they were trying
to look like dicks?
[laughs] wait.
Did you?
I can neither
confirm nor deny.
[chuckles]
Oh, my god, stop!
I'm so embarrassed
for you right now.
I would laugh if I wasn't
so hungry.
[thunder rumbling]
So, uh, what happened?
Last we talked, you thought
the world was ending
And people were shit.
Now you're walking through
a thousand miles
Of empties on a hunch.
You think it's too late
to reinvent myself?
Check it out.
The options are endless.
You led me and felix
right to you.
You get roped into this,
or did you have second thoughts?
I did.
But then I got second thoughts
on my second thoughts.
You gonna be straight
with me or what?
Yeah.
Once you're straight
with me
About where
cool huck went.
'cause right now you're starting
to sound a lot like my dad.
You never showed up.
Principal kallenbach's
office?
Ring any bells?
I sat there
and waited for you all day,
And you never showed.
Right.
That.
So, you forgot?
Well, I was gonna go
between classes,
But then I came up
with the exact
Right phrase
for the start of
The advanced immunology
textbook preface,
The one giving me
all the trouble, remember?
That's when I forgot.
And by that point,
I had another class.
And -- and then I decided that
if you sat there all day,
Maybe you'd think twice
before setting off stink bombs
To try to get
a day off of school.
Then I wondered if all that
transpired was just
A product of the background
processes of my brain,
Which made me forget again
until right now.
So...
You want to tell me
what's going on with you?
This is getting to be
a regular thing.
They weren't just
stink bombs.
They were time-release
They took two weeks
to perfect.
Never mind.
Picking a dud like me,
You probably kick yourself
some days.
♪♪
Least you did
good with iris.
♪♪
The agency told me
and your mother
You shared a crib.
You two were
inseparable.
You were bonded
before we ever met you.
From the moment we laid
eyes on you both,
We just wanted
to protect you.
We knew that even
if we couldn't,
You'd protect each other.
You did good with iris.
And she did good
with you.
I've never wished
for another iris.
I love you
unconditionally.
I just hate that you don't
see yourself the way I do
Because you are
exceptional.
I got to go help iris
before she burns dinner again.
So, those stink bombs...
Ammonium sulfide?
Please.
Try 60% dipropylene glycol
and 20% thioglycolic acid.
It's not what
I would have done, but...
It's not bad.
♪♪
[thunder rumbles]
Sup?
Seen a few of those
outlines around.
First one with an actual
sign attached.
Think it's by accident?
Maybe not.
What, so you think
someone took 'em all down
For some reason
and just missed one?
Don't know.
If somebody
pulled the signs,
Maybe it means there's something
in there worth hiding.
But maybe we got a shot
at resupply, after all.
Yeah.
Now we just
got to find it.
[thunder rumbles]
Elton: Where'd you
learn to do that?
[groans]
Not high school.
[pounding]
[door hinges creak]
Hey. Look.
We're looking for anything
that collects water --
Bottles, beakers,
anything that seals.
Roger that.
[camera shutter clicks,
camera winds]
So, these
pictures you take...
Science is like
your thing, huh?
It's pretty much
my raison d'être, yeah.
Hmm.
Hey, hey, hey.
Come here.
Yeah, grab that.
Nice!
[sniffs] you know there's
a bunch of research
Going on back home, right?
There is,
but this is much better.
It's visceral.
Instead of studying the world
in books and laboratories,
I'm seeing it firsthand,
documenting it.
What about helping iris and hope
find their dad, huh?
Where does that fit in?
I'm all about that, too.
Worried about
their father,
And I don't want
them to worry.
I mean, you barely knew
them before.
Yeah. Now I know everything
from their morning breath
To their bathroom habits.
[laughs]
A monumental
shared experience
Such as this pretty much
bonds you for life.
Unreal.
Oh, score!
Iodine.
The holy grail of
water purification.
Grab that, and alright.
We're good to go.
[thunder rumbles]
Well, that
wasn't here before.
♪♪
Is -- is it from an empty?
[thunder rumbles]
Must have been injured
and dragged itself away.
Maybe.
Maybe not.
♪♪
Hey, silas.
Iris, you copy?
♪♪
Shh, shh, shh, shh,
shh, shh, shh.
Silas?
♪♪
Stay behind me.
[walker growling]
♪♪
[door hinges creak]
[thunder rumbles]
[door thuds]
Iris: Looks like a party.
[walker growls]
♪♪
[pounding on door]
The door's holding.
It's okay.
[growling continues]
Sadie...
Hawkins.
Huh.
Must have gone
to school here.
[pounding on door, growling]
♪♪
Uh...
Probably not
the most useful, huh?
Says who?
♪♪
Hmm.
Uh, we should go to the
teachers' lounge down the hall.
Maybe we'll have
better luck there.
Wait.
[door thudding]
Let me try.
It's water damage.
Ground's uneven,
and the door frame's shifted.
I think it's stuck for good.
Hand me your walkie.
Thanks.
Hey, felix,
do you copy?
[pounding on door,
walker growling]
Felix?
Hey, what's...?
Maybe the batteries
need a charge.
Nope.
They're corroded.
♪♪
[thunder rumbles]
[thudding]
You never talk
about your parents.
I mean, what was
your dad like?
I mean, you were in the army
or whatever, right?
He must have
been so proud.
He was.
It's always complicated shit
with dads, you know?
What do you mean?
They just, you know,
have a funny way of showing
They give a shit
sometimes.
Yeah.
I'm sorry, hope,
but I have to go.
What, to put yourself
in danger who knows where
For a bunch of people
you don't even know?
Seriously?
They're good people,
hope. I mean...
At least they seem to be.
The center for public goals
are our goals.
We need to trust them.
Good people would tell you
where they're taking you.
And I'm sorry if I don't
trust you, of all people,
To see things
clearly here.
Well, I trust my brain.
And my brain
is telling me
That the clear thing
is to trust these people.
Any chance I can get
to teach emerging minds
To train more people in the
things we'll all need to know,
That's the way
forward, hope.
It's -- it's
the only way.
This world you're trying
to save is over.
That's what my brain
is telling me.
This isn't the end.
If it was, it'd be easy,
but it's not.
We still got a shot.
I'm gonna take it.
I'll be better.
♪♪
[voice breaking] I'll stop
being a screw-up.
I'm not going on this trip
because of you.
You are not a screw-up.
Of course I am.
You're frustrated.
It's not your fault
why you're frustrated.
What do you mean?
I've been meaning
to talk to you
For a while
about a lot of things.
I just...
I can't right now,
but we will when I get back.
And I will be back.
It's big stuff,
but it's not bad stuff.
♪♪
You know how they said
we couldn't communicate,
How the civic republic
doesn't allow any messages
To go in or out?
Well, I figured
something out.
What?
It's a little tweak
on some old technology
I'll be sharing
with the omaha council
When I get back,
but not until.
And I'll show this device
to you and your sister.
Felix already knows.
Felix?
He's family, hope.
You made
a communications device?
See?
I can be bad, too.
It's gonna be fine.
I love you.
More than
you'll ever know.
♪♪
[thunder rumbles]
Can I be honest
about something?
Yeah.
Instead of turning
a blind corner
And potentially facing
who knows what,
Maybe we draw it out,
Face it on our turf
versus theirs.
[chuckles]
Maybe?
Just stay behind me.
♪♪
[rattling, banging]
[walkers growling]
♪♪
Hey.
You okay?
Yeah. I-I'm just
claustrophobic,
So I'd rather not think
about it.
[rattling, banging]
This one's not
going anywhere.
Come on.
We should keep moving.
♪♪
You want some water?
Hmm?
Yeah. Yeah.
I get that you have your reasons
for being out here, okay?
But you're not
ready for this.
None of you are.
Hell, I don't even
know if I am.
[thunder rumbles]
Look, there may not
be something around that corner
Right now, but sooner
or later, there will be.
Okay?
And if you care about --
About iris or hope
or silas --
You've seen
this before, right?
You ever wonder
why I got this tattoo?
It's to remind myself of
everything that I've ever lost.
Who I've lost.
I lost my parents,
too, elton.
Just like you did.
And there were others --
friends.
[exhales deeply]
The person who taught me how to
pick that lock back there.
Hell, I can't lose
anyone else, okay?
I won't.
That's exactly why
I need your help, okay?
I need your help convincing
the others just to turn around.
All I'm asking for you
is to think about it, okay?
Just think about it.
Come on.
Let's go.
♪♪
[thunder crashes]
Ohh.
♪♪
[walkers growling]
Did an empty do this?
No.
No, it did not.
Look, we need to find
the others, okay?
We need to get the hell
out of here.
Whatever did this
might not be alone.
I guess if we have to,
we can make our way past
The empty,
find our way upstairs.
Mm-hmm.
You thirsty?
Where did you find...?
Under the bleachers.
[laughs]
I've never had soda
in a can before.
[can pops]
Holy shit, that's good.
Yeah.
[both laugh]
You think they knew how good
they had it here?
Sodas, dances,
art class,
The freedom to be
whoever and whatever.
Except for these, didn't you
have all those things
Back at the university?
Yeah.
I just wish I knew then
what I know now.
Maybe I wouldn't have put
so much pressure on myself
To try and make up
for everything,
Living for
everybody else.
Make up for what?
[sighs]
Stuff.
But I will tell you
one thing.
I definitely would have gone
to more dances.
I mean, I wouldn't have been
so afraid to just have fun.
What about art?
Oh.
What about it?
You're...
An artist.
You're different now.
Leading us.
Yeah, I'm trying.
You are.
You're different, too.
I mean, what you did back
at the blaze.
I know how people
talked about me.
Stupid people.
Most people.
Yeah.
Stupid people.
If they said
something about me,
Talking about
what they thought I did,
I'd hear it all day,
in my head, over and over.
I don't out here.
Good.
[chuckles]
Mm! You promised me you'd
play me a song once it was safe.
[laughs] come on.
Please!
[sighs]
Alright, it's, uh --
it's like this, yeah?
Yeah.
Mm. Uh...
[music playing softly]
Oh!
I didn't realize, uh...
[laughs] I-I just didn't
peg you for a...
It was
my grandma's favorite.
You know what?
I like it.
[thunder rumbles]
The basement steps
should be just up ahead.
This place
is a maze.
[growling]
Get back.
[barks]
No, not the gun.
[snarling, growling]
Yeah?
It's so crazy to think of all
those old-timey dances.
I mean, women in ball gowns,
Waltzing to a song
just like this.
Must have been so...
...Glamorous.
[laughs]
When I was 4,
my grandma took me
To a ballroom dance class
at the senior center.
It was not so glamorous.
Busted. So, you do know
how to dance.
Okay, come on.
Show me.
I can't. I don't --
I don't remember.
I don't believe you.
I really don't
remember, so...
Come on.
We'll do it together.
Come on!
[chuckles]
[laughs]
That way.
Uh, like this, right?
I think so.
[laughs]
Okay.
And -- ooh, ooh.
Um...[laughs]
Yep. That's --
that was -- okay.
Alright.
We're getting there.
[laughs]
[clears throat]
Come on.
We got this.
[orchestral music playing]
♪♪
Oh. Of course.
[laughs] that's good.
[laughs]
♪♪
[growling]
Hope: There's got to be
a way past it.
If it would just move
or go away.
It's not moving
for a reason.
I mean, look at it.
Posted in that doorway
like it's standing guard.
You think it's defending
its young?
If I'm right, I think I know
how we can get around it.
Go slow.
[growling]
♪♪
[snarls]
[door clangs]
♪♪
Come on.
Silas, you copy?
You have to chase me.
[laughing]
Found 'em.
[pounds on door]
Felix: Hey. Iris!
Silas!
[bangs on door]
It won't open.
Trust us.
Mm.
Is there another way out?
Uh, there's a back way.
Leads to the basement.
But there's
an empty there.
Alright, we'll go down,
and we'll come back up.
I'll take care of
the empty.
I need you two to stay here
until then, alright?
There's something else
roaming these hallways,
And I don't think
it's friendly.
[thunder rumbles]
So, that whole defending
its young thing?
Something I picked up being out
there as long as I was.
See, it's easy to think
you're reading a situation
The right way.
Sometimes, though,
there's a whole other thing
Going on you had
no idea about.
Like, how you're trying
to get me to turn back?
That's what
that was, right?
I mean,
all those questions?
You should.
A few days ago,
I would've,
Alright,
but now I know I can't.
Dads have a weird way
of showing they give a shit.
And maybe I had
my dad's shit all wrong.
What do you mean?
Before my dad left, he told me
that it wasn't my fault
That I was so frustrated.
I thought he was just
saying shit to try
And make me feel better,
but maybe...
Maybe he was trying
to protect me, like that wolf.
Protect you from what?
I don't know.
Something.
When I find him,
I'll ask him.
[door opens]
Still hungry?
[laughs]
♪♪
[door closes]
[walker growling]
♪♪
Start packing up supplies.
I got this.
♪♪
[gun cocks]
[growling]
[knife thuds]
[growling, pounding on door]
[pounding continues]
Do you hear that?
Yeah. I don't know
what it is, though.
[walker growling,
grate rattling]
We got to get
past this empty.
Uh, yeah.
Uh...
I'm gonna open this door,
okay, and, um,
When I say,
you open that one.
Right.
Alright.
Okay, oh.
[growling]
Hey, hey, hey!
Look at me!
Come on!
Right here.
Hey! Silas, door!
♪♪
Aah!
[grunts]
♪♪
Iris: What is it?
I think it's a flare.
♪♪
Watch your eyes.
[flare ignites]
Whoa!
♪♪
[walker growling in distance]
Silas, be careful.
[walker growling]
♪♪
Silas!
No!
[grunts]
Silas?
Door!
[growling]
[grunts]
♪♪
[walker growling]
You okay?
Yeah. You?
Mm-hmm.
We got to
get out of here.
♪♪
Silas!
[walker growling]
[grunts]
♪♪
Gross.
Got to get those
omega-3s somehow.
Iris: [muffled] hey, silas,
help me with this door.
[bag zips]
Did you hear that?
♪♪
[grunts]
iris?
[rattling]
Iris!
[walker growling]
hope?
We need to get this door open.
There's empties in here,
and it's about to get bad.
Huck: Iris, we're gonna
get you out of there.
You hang on.
Hurry!
It's coming.
They always keep coming.
[walker growling]
[grunts]
[pounding on door]
[walkers growling]
♪♪
-You get a fresh start.
-Even his own mom
Testified against him.
Man: Still can't believe
they let him in here.
Woman: Dude should be in jail
for what he did.
♪♪
Aah!
[walker growling]
♪♪
[grunting]
-Iris!
-Felix!
Felix: We're gonna get you
out of there!
Hurry!
Silas!
Stop!
[walker growling]
silas!
♪♪
-Aah!
-Hey, silas!
Silas!
Oh!
[walker growling]
Silas!
♪♪
I'm sorry.
When I heard
you screaming...
Yeah. I know.
But I'm okay.
Are we?
♪♪
There's a lot
I missed out on.
Maybe if I would
have just...
Or if you...
♪♪
We should have talked.
We should've
told each other
About what happened
that night.
We would've been there
for each other.
That's what we both
missed out on.
♪♪
[both laugh]
Yeah. You put the "tough"
in tuffystitch.
You know that, kid?
Yeah.
Had me worried
for a second.
Thank you.
I'm more worried
about silas.
[sighs]
[door opens]
So, um,
if you did have a plan
To turn around,
how would that even work?
I mean, going back through
the b.O.G. Would be suicide.
Depending on how long it takes
to convince everyone,
There's ways around.
Such as?
Put it this way.
Our last best chance
is the mississippi.
[bag zips]
Huck and I -- we could really
use your help on this one.
This is how we keep
everyone alive.
You in?
[footsteps approaching]
Hey.
Everyone is
ready to go, so...
You should
leave me here.
Okay, well, we're not
leaving you here, so...
I hurt elton.
It was an accident.
He knows that.
I know you've heard
what they say.
What they said.
Do you think
I killed my dad?
Do you?
It's okay.
Whatever you think.
I just --
don't.
It doesn't matter.
Maybe I could have
done it myself.
Maybe you should
have let me.
But you saved us.
Twice now.
I mean,
you did that, silas.
Hey, that's
what matters.
So come on.
Let's get you
cleaned up.
♪♪
[door opens]
[door closes]
Hey, you good?
You are.
Um, wait.
Just hold on.
Excuse me.
Uh...
What, did you forget
your prom crown, or...?
No, no, I-I just
want to get a group photo.
Come on.
Everybody in.
I thought you only used
your camera to document stuff.
Since when do you take pictures
of actual people?
I don't know.
Since now.
Come on.
Alright.
Smile.
[camera shutter clicks]
♪♪
[click]
Lyla: Test subject a402.
That's good there.
Thank you.
Test subject displayed
no detectable responses
To psychological stimuli.
Necrotic plasma and brain fluid
Are being drawn
for further testing.
Results to be compared
to test performed
During and immediately
following reanimation.
Tomorrow we'll begin the climate
variation tests, as scheduled.
Again, this is
test subject a402,
Known in life as
dr. Samuel abbott
Of portland, oregon.
♪♪
[growling]
Thank you.
Bring out the next ts, please.
[buzzing, doors clanging]
♪♪
[muffled] that's good there.
Thank you.
[buzzing, doors clanging]
Test subject a403.